---
layout: post
title: "Google Summer Of Code Report"
date: 2016-08-23 8:00:00
categories: jekyll Update
---

## Project - [Actionable Notifications Module](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RIC_PevVgzE2LTzb5qLSaVXJmRKv9P4R8RkqQX_DdRs/edit?usp=sharing)

## Organisation - [Mifos Initiative](http://mifos.org/)

## Introduction
From the past two and a half months I have been working on building a notification module for the Mifos organization. This module will help the developers of the organisation to integrate notifications with their functionality with a simple use of an API. For e.g if a developer wants that whenever a functions X is processed some users must me notified about it. So with the use of this module it would become easy for the developers to notify other users without writing much code and worry about it's reception and storage details.

## Overview of the project

The first part of this project was to generate and store the notifications.

We have used pub-sub model for broadcasting and receiving the messages to achieve generation and storage of notifications. An external queue has also been used with the help of [ActiveMq](http://activemq.apache.org/) library to make the publication and subscription of messages to be asynchronous.

 > Why we used an external queue ?

1. After inserting a message into an external queue it is not really required to process the message at the same time. It can be processed later i.e an external queue decouples the producer from the consumer.
2. The producer and consumer do not need to interact at the same time.
3.  An external queue will keep the processes in the application separated and independent of each other. So if one process that is processing messages from the queue fails, other messages can still be added to the queue and be processed when the system has recovered.

The second part of this project was to deliver the notifications to the users.

Now to deliver the notifications to the user on client side, the most common way is to poll the server after specific period of time to check whether the notifications for the current user are available or not.But this is not very efficient technique to fetch notifications.

The method which I have used to for the delivery of notifications is that, for every rest request which the UI makes there will be a reponse header 'X-Notification-Refresh' which will cone along with the response and that header will contain the information like true or false. If that response header is true then fetch the notifications as there are unread notifications for the current user else leave.

This pretty much sums up my project :).

## Links to the work done

1. Documentation for the design of my project - [Notification Module Design](https://mifosforge.jira.com/wiki/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=133070890)
2. [Notification API Developer User Guide](https://mifosforge.jira.com/wiki/display/MDZ/Notification+API+Developer+User+Guide)
3. [Configure Notifications-End User guide](https://mifosforge.jira.com/wiki/display/docs/Configure+Notifications)
4. [Pull Request](https://github.com/apache/incubator-fineract/pull/178)

Thanks to the mifos community for providing awesome experience during this summer.


# Thanks to my mentor who always cleared my doubts even if he was too busy with his work :)














