---
layout: post
title: "Selection in GSOC"
date: 2016-04-27 3:23:00
categories: jekyll Update
---

April 22 2016 was one of the most memorable day of my life.This was the day which I have been waiting from a year.
This was the day of my selection in GSOC :). I still remember the feeling on the day before 22 April I was not able
to concentrate on a single work.I knew the results were going to be announced at 19.00(UTC) but still I was visiting the
GSOC-2016 site again and again to check my result.

Then the results were announced and I was happier than ever. When you desire for something and you get it you know the feeling.
Flashback in year 2015 when all of my peers were excited to take part in GSOC 2015 I was excited too. Out of the 137 organizations
which were selected I was just searching for an organization which fit under my current knowledge domain. At that time I
was only well versed in C, C++ which I used for competitive programming and Django a framework of python which is very
popular these days.

At the end I penciled down Django organization because that was the only thing which I knew back then. But their projects
were very difficult to assimilate.They were core projects which demanded a high level of expertise in Django like an experience
of around 2 years but I had only of 6 months. It was getting difficult for me to write even the proposal for that project.
Somehow I figured out that this is not the time :).

We as a human can do only one thing i.e **To TRY** and **Hope for the Best**.

This is what I did and I started learning all the web developments technologies. I learned HTML, CSS, Javascript and several
Js libraries and framework and around October of that year I had enough projects under my belt which showed my expertise in
web development. I had a wide range of projects ranging from a project using a JS framework to a project being optimized for
the web and the animations. [Udacity](httpa://udacity.com) played a vital role in my learning.

One fine day udacity e-mailed me that they are happy with my projects and they want me review their student projects. I
applied and I got selected :).

At last I would say that the last year was a good learning experience for me with some failures and and more success :).
I think this experience played a vital role for my selection in GSOC-2016.

And how can I forget my family members and especially my friends who all supported me through this :)

I have achieved something but the desire for success or even failures if happens to be is still not over.

Will update all of you about my experiences in GSOC...Till then bye.

Adhyan

