---
layout: post
title:  "Angular"
date:   2016-03-06 13:14:00
categories: jekyll update
---

## What is angular ?
* A client-side javascript framework for adding interactivity to HTML.
* In angular we add interactivity to HTML using directives.

### Why do we need to use angular ?
* Angular makes our web page responsive.
* In a traditional web page i.e non responsive whenever we click on a link all the assests are requested again and then rendered.
* In responsive web page when a link is clicked a response with json data is obtained and data is loaded into the existing page.

### What are directives ?
* A directive is a marker on a HTML tag that tells Angular to run or reference some javascript code. 

### What are modules ?
* Modules are where we write pieces of angular application.
* Modules make our code testable, maintainable and readable.
* Where we define dependencies of our app.
* A module is a piece of code to group similar kind of functionality. Like your user's functionaloty at one place.
Profile related functionality is at one place.
For e.g

```
var app = angular.module('store', []);
// store - name of the applcation.
// [] - contains the name of the dependencies

```


### What are expressions ?
* Allows you to insert dynamic values into the HTML.
For e.g

```
I am "{{4+6}}"
//{{4+6}} is a expression.

```

### What are controllers ?
* This is the place where we define our apps behaviour by defining functions and values.
* A controller controls all the elements in which it is defined and it's sub elements.

### What is $scope variable which is used in conrollers ?
* It makes the variables and methods available to the view. 

### Summary
* Directives - HTML annotations that trigger javascript.
* Modules - Where our application components live.
* Controllers - Where we add application behaviour.
* Expressions - How values get displayed within the page.
